THIS THING CALLED SLEEP 

during sleep we have decreases awareness and responsiveness to the external environment, dimished conciouseness and the thythmic appearance of certain physiologic patterns. 

Conscioness has been described a paradozial state in which a person is simultaneusly a subject who can experience things and an object perceived by oneself.


If sleep does not serve an absolutely vital function, then it is the biggest mistake the evolutionary process has ever made.

Within the brain, sleep enriches a diversity of functions, including our  ability to learn, memorize and make logical decisions and choices

Sleep reforms the body's metabolic state by fine tuning the balance of insulin and circulating glucose. 

There are two main factora that determine when you want to sleep and when you want to be awake--- The first factor is a signal beamed out from your internal twenty-four -hour clock located deep withing your brain. 


The longer you ve been awake the more that chemical sleep pressure accumulates and consequentiall the sleepier you feel

Sleep is comprised of rhythimically recurring sleep stages whuch are defined by looking at brain waves, or an electroelncephalogram EEG, in conjuction with the electrooculogram EOG, which records eye movements and the electromyogram EMG, a measure of muscle ctivity

Sleep is an important part of your daily routine—you spend about one-third of your time doing it. 

All Sleep Is Not the Same
Throughout your time asleep, your brain will cycle repeatedly through two different types of sleep: REM (rapid-eye movement) sleep and non-REM sleep.

The first part of the cycle is non-REM sleep, which is composed of four stages. The first stage comes between being awake and falling asleep. The second is light sleep, when heart rate and breathing regulate and body temperature drops. The third and fourth stages are deep sleep. Though REM sleep was previously believed to be the most important sleep phase for learning and memory, newer data suggests that non-REM sleep is more important for these tasks, as well as being the more restful and restorative phase of sleep.

As you cycle into REM sleep, the eyes move rapidly behind closed lids, and brain waves are similar to those during wakefulness. Breath rate increases and the body becomes temporarily paralyzed as we dream.

The cycle then repeats itself, but with each cycle you spend less time in the deeper stages three and four of sleep and more time in REM sleep. On a typical night, you’ll cycle through four or five times.